---
layout: trend
title:  "Screens"
subtitle: Smartphones, tablets, PCs, and TVs
date:   2014-12-30
category: trend
---


<section style="margin-top:80px">
<h3>Screen size gives context to the user experience allowing users to choose how, when, and where they want to watch, play and interact in a connected world.</h3>
</section>
</div>
<div class="jumbo-inner jumbo--smartphones">
	<div class="container container-wide">
		<div class="jumbo-text vcenter">
			<h1 class="hero">Smartphones</h1>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
<div class="container container-wide">
<p>A data center in your pocket In 2015, your smartphone is still going to be the center of your electronic universe—and, it’s going to know more about you than it ever did before. Smartphones are THE central data gathering point for your connected life and average users check them about 150 times each day. Of course, we will see new mobile devices this year: wearables, smart cars, smart homes, and more—but, they will all connect to and through your smartphone. So for 2015, yep, there’s still an app for that.</p>
<h2>Android</h2>
<p>We expect 2015 to be a massive year for Android. Fragmentation is improving, with Android version 4.0+ now accounting for 90% of the market. Thanks to Google Play Services, the platform is more backwards compatible than ever before. And last but not least, we'll see version 5.0 Lollipop and Material Design give the platform a long overdue facelift.</p> 
<h3>Android global domination continues</h3> <p class="text-muted">Global Smartphone OS Market Share, Q3 2014</p> <div id="smartphoneOSmkt" style="chart chart-line"></div> <div class="source pull-right">Source: <a href="http://www.idc.com/prodserv/smartphone-os-market-share.jsp">IDC</a></div>

<h3>The rise of Google-less Android, and a third OS</h3>

<p>Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi overtook Samsung as China's leading smartphone vendor in the second quarter according to Canalys and is now the third largest in the world. The company has been harshly criticized for copying Apple, so much so, Johnny Ive stated, "I think it’s theft, and it’s lazy" in regard to the Mi phone (their flagship device). While Xiaomi devices technically do run Android, it's a completely customized version without Google apps. In 2015 we expect Xiaomi will spend some of the $1.1bn it just raised to bring its software and thus a third OS to the western world.</p>

<h3>Apple are Samsung are feeling the competition from Xiaomi and other Chinese OEMs</h3>

<p class="text-muted">Global Smartphone Vendor Market Share, Q3 2014</p> <div id="smartphoneVendormkt" style="chart chart-line"></div> <div class="source pull-right">Source: <a href="http://www.idc.com/prodserv/smartphone-os-market-share.jsp">IDC</a></div> 

<h3>Google Play vs. the App Store</h3>
<p>Although Android has long surpassed iOS in terms of users, Apple has always been able to brag about store revenue. However, that will change soon. According to Radio Free Mobile analyst Richard Windsor, Google Play Store revenue will surpass Apple App Store revenue by 2018. The math is not terribly difficult, Android has almost 85% market share and it's increasing. But it isn't just cheaper hardware prices that is contributing to Android's success, the ecosystem for developers has matured--leveling the playing field with once dominant iOS.</p>

<h3>Material Design will give Android a facelift</h3>
<p>With Android Lollipop (v5.0) and Android Wear, TV, and Auto about to hit the market, Google used the opportunity to give itself a facelift. At the June I/O conference they introduced Material Design, a unified design language and system for all screen sizes. Unlike Apple's flat interfaces in iOS 7 and iOS 8, Material Design incorporates material paper-like surfaces with slight gradients, shadows, and textures, as well as real-world physics that are supposed to make interfaces easier for users to navigate. Hate or love it, the Material design spec is an example of how brands need to approach a multiscreen world.</p>
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9" style="margin:0 0 80px 0;"> <iframe class="embed-resposive-item" width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/Q8TXgCzxEnw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> </div>
<h2>iOS</h2>
<p>As pure hardware updates are harder to come by, Apple is expanding and fortifying the walled-garden around the iPhone. At WWDC, Apple announced the Apple Watch and iOS 8. Although lacking major design changes, HomeKit, the Swift programming language, CloudKit, Handoff, and WatchKit, have made the ecosystem around iOS better than ever, especially for developers.</p> 
<p>
Sadly for Apple, an unusually high number of iPhone users aren't upgrading their devices. iOS 8 adoption has been considerably slower previous updates, creating unprecented fragmentation in iOS for the first time. That being said, iPhone 6 has been a hit, while the 6 Plus is selling about as well as the 5c since launch. In fact, iPhone 6’s are outselling iPhone 6 Plus’s 3 to 1 (Fiksu). Based on the changes this year, what will the iPhone 7 look like? Maybe it will bend...on purpose.</p>
<div class="grid">
<h3>Both OS's are now fragmented</h3>
<div class="col-1-2-xs">
	<p class="text-muted">iOS Platform Versions</p>
	<div id="iosversions" style="chart chart-donut"></div></div>
<div class="col-1-2-xs">
	<p class="text-muted">Android Platform Versions</p>
	<div id="androidversions" style="chart chart-donut"></div>
</div>
<div class="source pull-right">Sources: <a href="https://developer.apple.com/support/appstore/">Apple (December 22, 2014), </a><a href="http://developer.android.com/about/dashboards/index.html?utm_content=buffer07ca2&utm_source=buffer&utm_medium=twitter&utm_campaign=Buffer">Google (December 1,2014)</a></div>
</div>

</div> 

<div class="jumbo-inner jumbo--tablet">
	<div class="container container-wide">
		<div class="jumbo-text vcenter">
			<h1 class="hero">Tablets & PCs</h1>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
<div class="container container-wide">

<h3>The golden age of tablets is behind us</h3>
<p>
Tablets sold 80.4M units this year, which is up from last year, but current growth has cratered. By 2017, the rate of annual growth will slow to single digits <a href="http://blogs.wsj.com/digits/2014/07/10/tablet-shipments-decline-for-the-first-time-npd/" class="href">according to NPD</a>. Gartner projects over 90 million fewer new tablet purchasers and 155 million fewer tablet replacements through 2018. Unit sales are up 3%, but revenues are down 4% in 2014 <a href="http://www.ce.org/News/News-Releases/Press-Releases/2014/Consumer-Electronics-Industry-Revenues-to-Reach-Al.aspx">according to the CEA</a>. For reference. Why? The market is getting hammered on two fronts; phones are getting bigger and lightweight laptops are looking more like larger tablets. Without massive hardware improvements and an average lifespan of 3 years, the market appears to be is cooling down. 
</p>

<h3>Tablet growth is slowing down</h3>
<p class="text-muted">Global PC and Tablet Shipments (in 000s) 2013-2015E</p>
<div id="deviceshipments" class="chart chart--line"></div>
<div class="source pull-right">Source: <a href="http://www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/2875017">Gartner</a></div>

<h3>The PC world continues to be in transition</h3>
<p>With the bulk of the market still driven by businesses, and the consumer market struggling to decide whether the future is in tablets with keyboards or laptops with touch screens, the market is in an inflection point.</p>

<p>Windows 8.1 fixed some of the big problems with Windows 8. Based on the previews of Windows 10, it looks like Windows is going back to basics with this its UI and scaling back the controversial mosaic tiles. We expect businesses to skip Windows 8 & 8.1 all together.</p>

<p>Google’s Chromebooks are one of the few bright spots in the PC market. These laptops run Chrome OS, a modified version of Google’e Chrome Browser but with added offline support. With an entry-level price of , they are schooling competitors (especially iPads) in the education market. While the idea of inexpensive, mostly cloud based laptops is awesome,  greater adoption hinges on the robustness of the Chrome Web Store and web apps.</p>

</div>
<div class="jumbo-inner jumbo--tablet">
	<div class="container container-wide">
		<div class="jumbo-text vcenter">
			<h1 class="hero">Television</h1>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
<div class="container container-wide">

TV manufacturing has never been more difficult. Massive price deflation continues. On Black Friday, Best Buy was selling 55” 4K sets, which would have cost around $3000 to $3500 last year, for just $900.  With fierce competition, commoditized features, and razor-thin margin, sales down 5% in 2014 to $18.4B [according to the CEA](http://www.ce.org/News/News-Releases/Press-Releases/2014/Consumer-Electronics-Industry-Revenues-to-Reach-Al.aspx). 

##4K shipments are increasing
Thanks to dramatic price reductions, prices for 4K sets are now in the same ranges as last year’s high-end HD sets. Sales up 400% YoY due to small sales in 2013. 8 million sets were shipped globally in 2014, 60% of which were in China. Despite the hype, 4K sets will only be in about 10% of US HH in 2018. Why? Screen size and lack of content. 

Since it is extraordinarily difficult to tell the difference between HD and 4K on screens smaller 60” (unless you like to sit really close to your TV), manufacturers are adding in other improvements to 4K models like new contrast and color enhancements to attempt to differentiate them. Getting 4K content is a whole other issue. Right now, only over-the-top (OTT) services can stream it. Unfortunately, 4K cable distribution is likely years away. But then again, who watches cable anyways? 

##Smart TVs are also catching on
Smart TV sales increased 29% YoY and continue to grow in market share (54% of all shipments in 2014, 73% in 2016E). However, this is correlation and not causation; people are not seeking out the “smart” functionality per se. Regardless of the reasoning, enhanced distribution will increase connection rates and bring streaming services like Netflix, Amazon, and the other major providers into more homes.Samsung is the leader at 29% share (because they are the leader in TV sales), followed by Vizio (24%), Sony (17%), and LG (13%).

<a href="/trend/2014/12/17/media/" style="margin:40px 0;" class="btn btn-primary">Next: Media</a>




