---
layout: trend
title:  "Autos"
subtitle: Connected cars and autonomous vehicles
date:   2014-12-18
category: trend
---

##Your biggest connected device 
For years, major car companies have been trying to reinvent the wheel with car computers...trying to prove to us that they are tech companies. The ones that are trying to build their own custom systems are about to be eclipsed by Google and Apple. They not only have the engineering teams, they also have the benefit of controlling end-to-end multi-screen UI/UX. In 2015, we'll see the release of [Android Auto](www.android.com/auto/) as well as [Apple CarPlay](https://www.apple.com/ios/carplay/), and these could come sooner.

<div class="grid">
	<div class="col-1-2-xs">
        <div class="stat">
            <p class="stat-num">58%</p>
            <p class="stat-text">US consumers want support for iOS or Android, and not a car company systems</p>
            <div class="source pull-right">Source: <a href="http://www.autonews.com/article/20140110/OEM06/301109910/the-race-to-market-the-connected-car">IHS</a></div>
        </div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-1-2-xs">
        <div class="stat">
            <p class="stat-num">152m</p>
            <p class="stat-text">Worldwide connected cars by 2020, up 6x from 23m 2013</p>
            <div class="source pull-right">Source: <a href="http://www.autonews.com/article/20140110/OEM06/301109910/the-race-to-market-the-connected-car">IHS</a></div>
        </div>
	</div>
</div>


By 2020, 60-75% of cars will be another device on your mobile data plan, capable of consuming, creating and sharing web based data.  AT&T has the largest number of car companies signed up as partners in connected cars with a total of 8 manufacturers including Nissan, BMW, Ford, Tesla, GM, Audi, Volvo, and GM Europe.  Verizon has half as many with Mercedes, VW, Toyota, and Hyundai.  Projections are that this new connected device will be generating $20B by 2018.  And by 2020, Gartner projects that there will be 150M cars connected to the Internet.


###Self-driving cars
Will Uber drivers protest when they are replaced with self-driving cars? According to the World Health Organization, more than 1.2 million lives are lost every year in road traffic accidents. Autonomous vehicles will be safer, more reliable, and fuel efficient than today's cars. While unmanned ride-sharing will certainly be fantastic for consumers, unmanned vehicles will revolutionize shipping. In a November 2013 research note on Tesla Inc. Morgan Stanley predicted that driverless cars will generate $1.3 trillion in annual savings in the United States, with over $5.6 trillions of savings worldwide. 

###The future is almost here
Google released a functional prototype of its fully autonomous vehicle in May. Ironically, since it lacks a steering wheel and breaks, it does not meet current California State Vehicle Regualtions...oops. 

####Google Self-Driving Car Project
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9" style="margin:0 0 80px 0;">
<iframe class="embed-resposive-item" width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/CqSDWoAhvLU" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>


##Driver-assist: the short-term solution
While we won't see fully autonomous vehicles on the road this year, we will see a host of driver-assist solutions. Lane-assist, automatic speed control, attention-sensing, parking, breaking, and augmented-reality HUDs will all be front and center at CES. Until Washington, the Valley, and Detroit sort out autonomous regulations, this is the next best thing. 

####Tesla Model S P85D AWD auto-pilot
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9" style="margin:0 0 80px 0;">
<iframe class="embed-resposive-item" width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/7quu551ehc0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

