---
layout: trend
title:  "Internet of Things"
subtitle: Smart Home, connected cars, and the data economy
date:   2014-12-27
category: trend
---

<!-- ##The Zettabyte (ZB) era
####More tubes ;-) -->
<!-- 
- By 2018, there will be nearly four billion global Internet users (more than 51 percent of the world's population), up from 2.5 billion in 2013
- Annual global IP traffic will pass the zettabyte (1000 exabytes) threshold by the end of 2016, and will reach 1.6 zettabytes per year by 2018. In 2016, global IP traffic will reach 1.1 zettabytes per year or 91.3 exabytes (one billion gigabytes) per month, and by 2018, global IP traffic will reach 1.6 zettabytes per year or 131.9exabytes per month.
- Global IP traffic has increased 5x over the past 5 years, and will increase threefold over 3x 5years. Overall, IP traffic will grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 21 percent from 2013 to 2018.
- 2 internet devices per capita by 2018
- Broadband speeds will nearly triple by 2018. By 2018, global fixed broadband speeds will reach 42 Mbps, upfrom 16 Mbps in 2013.
 -->
<div class="grid">
	<div class="col-1-2-xs">
        <div class="stat">
            <p class="stat-num">1 ZB</p>
            <p class="stat-text">of IP traffic by 2016 (91 billion gigabytes per month)</p>
            <!-- <div class="source pull-right">Source: <a href="http://www.autonews.com/article/20140110/OEM06/301109910/the-race-to-market-the-connected-car">Cisco VNI</a></div> -->
        </div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-1-2-xs">
        <div class="stat">
            <p class="stat-num">51%</p>
            <p class="stat-text">of the world's population will be Internet users by 2018 </p>
            <!-- <div class="source pull-right">Source: <a href="http://www.autonews.com/article/20140110/OEM06/301109910/the-race-to-market-the-connected-car">Cisco VNI</a></div> -->
        </div>
	</div>
</div>



##The Data Economy
Data is more valuable in the presence of other data, and we desparately need new rules and regualtions to manage, store, and protect our personal and collective information. When we authenticate with Facebook, Google, Twitter, or even just enter our email, we our trading our data for goods and services. Our data is then grouped, sliced, diced, and sold to advertisers. In other words, if the app you're using is free, then you (the user) is the product.

If we apply Moore's Law, Metcalfe's Law, and the Law of Accelerating returns to the IoT space, we can infer that the exponential growth of IP devices, traffic, and users will create a data gold rush. 

 >Father: "Ask me how much we used to pay for VPN's when I was your age?"   
 >Son: "Okay fine. How much?"   
 >Father: "I don't know, we never used 'em!"   
 [laughter]

People often (although not often enough) discuss what our carbon footprint does to our planet. With regards to 2015 and beyond, we'll also need to think about what our data footprint does to our society. Until we can regulate and handle our data, we will continue to live in the wild wild west of cybersecurity. The arms race between hackers and security specialists will never end, but hackers will have an advantage for most of 2015-2017. As we begin to explore the IoT devices in the next few sections, keep in mind how they fit into the larger data economy. 

</div>
<div class="jumbo-inner jumbo--smart">
	<div class="container container-wide">
		<div class="jumbo-text vcenter">
			<h1 class="hero">Smart Home</h1>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
<div class="container container-wide">
####'Hey Siri, flush the toilet'

- The ‘smart home’ industry will double in size by 2018, reaching $71B (Juniper)
- Home automation and entertainment systems will drive the 48% of the market, with security accounting for 27% in 2019 according to Strategy Analytics.

The seemingly slow uptake for connected home and smart home technology has more to do with perceived complexity and lack of a clear consumer value proposition than it has to do with the technology. Smart thermostats, clocks, locks, appliances, light bulbs and practically everything else you can think of already exists. What’s missing? Compelling reasons to purchase.

The biggest issue in the smart home space is interoperability. The market is still mostly siloed by manufacturer or chip maker. While ZigBee has firm over advantage when it comes to interoperability, the real players will be Apple and Google (via Nest Labs). Nest began with a smart thermostat, but has spread its “Works with Nest” ecosystem to be compatible with Jawbone, Mercedes, Dropcam, LIFX bulbs, Whirlpool appliances, and most importantly the IFTTT app. Apple fans will enjoy the first approved Apple HomeKit devices in 2015 and we expect them to be massively popular. Again though, with so many new connected devices so close to our day-to-day lives and the lives of our loved ones, privacy and data protection will be the utmost concern. 


</div>
<div class="jumbo-inner jumbo--autos">
	<div class="container container-wide">
		<div class="jumbo-text vcenter">
			<h1 class="hero">Autos</h1>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>
<div class="container container-wide">
For years, major car companies have been trying to reinvent the wheel with car computers...trying to prove to us that they are tech companies. The ones that are trying to build their own custom systems are about to be eclipsed by Google and Apple. They not only have the engineering teams, they also have the benefit of controlling end-to-end multi-screen UI/UX. In 2015, we'll see the release of [Android Auto](www.android.com/auto/) as well as [Apple CarPlay](https://www.apple.com/ios/carplay/), and these could come sooner.

<div class="grid">
	<div class="col-1-2-xs">
        <div class="stat">
            <p class="stat-num">58%</p>
            <p class="stat-text">US consumers want support for iOS or Android, and not a car company systems</p>
            <div class="source pull-right">Source: <a href="http://www.autonews.com/article/20140110/OEM06/301109910/the-race-to-market-the-connected-car">IHS</a></div>
        </div>
	</div>
	<div class="col-1-2-xs">
        <div class="stat">
            <p class="stat-num">152m</p>
            <p class="stat-text">Worldwide connected cars by 2020, up 6x from 23m 2013</p>
            <div class="source pull-right">Source: <a href="http://www.autonews.com/article/20140110/OEM06/301109910/the-race-to-market-the-connected-car">IHS</a></div>
        </div>
	</div>
</div>


By 2020, 60-75% of cars will be another device on your mobile data plan, capable of consuming, creating and sharing web based data.  AT&T has the largest number of car companies signed up as partners in connected cars with a total of 8 manufacturers including Nissan, BMW, Ford, Tesla, GM, Audi, Volvo, and GM Europe.  Verizon has half as many with Mercedes, VW, Toyota, and Hyundai.  Projections are that this new connected device will be generating $20B by 2018.  And by 2020, Gartner projects that there will be 150M cars connected to the Internet.


###Self-driving cars
Will Uber drivers protest when they are replaced with self-driving cars? According to the World Health Organization, more than 1.2 million lives are lost every year in road traffic accidents. Autonomous vehicles will be safer, more reliable, and fuel efficient than today's cars. While unmanned ride-sharing will certainly be fantastic for consumers, unmanned vehicles will revolutionize shipping. In a November 2013 research note on Tesla Inc. Morgan Stanley predicted that driverless cars will generate $1.3 trillion in annual savings in the United States, with over $5.6 trillions of savings worldwide. 

###The future is almost here
Google released a functional prototype of its fully autonomous vehicle in May. Ironically, since it lacks a steering wheel and breaks, it does not meet current California State Vehicle Regualtions...oops. 

####Google Self-Driving Car Project
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9" style="margin:0 0 80px 0;">
<iframe class="embed-resposive-item" width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/CqSDWoAhvLU" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>


##Driver-assist: the short-term solution
While we won't see fully autonomous vehicles on the road this year, we will see a host of driver-assist solutions. Lane-assist, automatic speed control, attention-sensing, parking, breaking, and augmented-reality HUDs will all be front and center at CES. Until Washington, the Valley, and Detroit sort out autonomous regulations, this is the next best thing. 

####Tesla Model S P85D AWD auto-pilot
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9" style="margin:0 0 80px 0;">
<iframe class="embed-resposive-item" width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/7quu551ehc0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>



