---
layout: post
title:  "Sony Electronics Inc."
image: "/img/Sony.jpg"
cover: "/img/Sony_cover.jpg"
image-alt: "Sony Electronics logo"
location: LVCC, Central Hall - 14200
website: http://www.sony.com/news
date:   2014-12-17
tags:
 - LVCC Central Hall
 - Audio
 - Audio, High-Performance/High-Resolution
 - Automotive Electronics
 - Digital Imaging/Photography
 - Other Consumer Technology
 - Streaming Services
---

Sony Electronics is the largest component of Sony Corporation of America, the U.S. holding company for Sony's U.S.-based electronics and entertainment businesses. Sony Electronics is a leading provider of audio/video electronics and information technology products for consumers and professionals.

##What to See and Why
Sony has one of the biggest booths at CES, and offers many awesome devices to check out. One of Sony's coolest gadgets is the SmartEyeglass Attach, which mounts to any existing pair of eyeglasses to make them instantly smarter. The device houses a processor linked to a 0.23-inch color OLED display (which Sony says is one of the smallest in the world), with a resolution slightly better than Google Glass. The unit has an electronic compass, accelerometer, and a touch sensor for manipulating and selecting display contents.

Camera enthusiasts will want to check out the a7S Full Frame Mirrorless Camera, which is a 2015 CES Best of Innovation Honoree. The world’s smallest full frame interchangeable lens camera, the a7S helps images and videos come alive with a breakthrough 15.3 stops of dynamic range, a 4K-optimized sensor and uncompressed 4K output via HDMI.

The camera isn't Sony's only Best of Innovation Honoree. Another recipient was the HT-ST5 HD Sound Bar, which was designed with Hollywood sound engineers and delivers immersive 7.1 surround sound with 7 discrete, digital amps and 9 speakers. Sony's MDR-1A Premium Hi-Res Stereo Headphones, which offer the perfect balance of premium style and hi-res audio performance, were also nominated.

