---
layout: post
title:  "Samsung"
image: "/img/Samsung.jpg"
cover: "/img/Samsung_cover.jpg"
image-alt: "Samsung logo"
location: LVCC Central Hall - 11906
website: http://www.samsung.com/us/
date:   2014-12-17
tags:
 - LVCC Central Hall
---

For over 70 years, Samsung has been dedicated to making a better world through diverse businesses that today span advanced technology, semiconductors, skyscraper and plant construction, petrochemicals, fashion, medicine, finance, hotels, and more. Our flagship company, Samsung Electronics, leads the global market in high-tech electronics manufacturing and digital media. Through innovative, reliable products and services; talented people; a responsible approach to business and global citizenship; and collaboration with our partners and customers, Samsung is taking the world in imaginative new directions.

##What to See and Why
Samsung is one of the biggest companies here at CES, and its booth is loaded with awesome things you have to see. Make sure you check out Samsung's TVs, powered by its proprietary OS, Tizen. Samsung says Tizen for Smart TV is optimized for living room devices, like Blu-ray players and set top boxes, and designed for an internet-connected TV experience. That means you can access multiple apps, services and media -- all while watching TV. Also in TVs: Keep an eye out for Samsung's quantum dot displays, which can create an even wider and more accurate array of colors than OLED sets.

Another device you'll want to make sure you see is the Galaxy Gear VR headset. Many companies are working on virtual reality headsets, but Samsung's unit is ready now. Powered by a Galaxy Note 4, the Gear VR lets you take a dip into virtual reality to experience the world around you in a brand new way. 

No trip through Samsung's booth would be complete without checking out its line of Internet of Things (IoT) products. The company has been emphasizing wearables and big data for a while. With the wearable market set to explode in the next few years, Samsung knows the IoT is the next big thing. From digital health to smart home to wearables and beyond, Samsung is building an ecosystem to power the world's connected devices.

One last cool device to check out: Samsung just unveiled new ring speakers that provide 360 degree sound. The two new products -- the WAM6500 and WAM7500 -- are built around a "ring radiator" that pipes audio in every direction while also carefully balancing bass and treble. 