---
layout: post
title:  "GoPro"
image: "/img/gopro.jpg"
cover: "/img/GoPro_cover.jpg"
image-alt: "GoPro logo"
location: LVCC, Central Hall - 13644
website: http://www.gopro.com
date:   2014-12-17
tags:
 - Sands
 - Smart Home Accessories
 - Robotics
 - Smart Home/Appliances
---

GoPro makes the world’s most versatile cameras, enabling people to capture immersive and engaging footage during their favorite activities. GoPro’s HERO line of cameras are used by more consumers, professional athletes, and video production professionals than any other camera in the world.

##What to See and Why
GoPro has become more than just a camera manufacturer; GoPro is a media company. Not only is GoPro the most popular action video camera in the world, the company has literally created the action cam culture. That's why GoPro is shifting into the media realm -- it's developing its own network to expand its brand in a new direction and new market.

Because its cameras are the go-to devices for just about everyone looking for a high-quality, small form-factor device, GoPro has found itself in brand new categories -- like drones. Most drones work by connecting to a small GoPro action cam, which is why many think GoPro main join the drone party at CES and unveil its own drone with a built-in GoPro camera. If that's the case, GoPro could quickly become one of the biggest drone companies in the world. 

Even if GoPro doesn't unveil a brand new product in a brand new market, you're not going to want to miss the booth. GoPro's latest line of cameras was just unveiled a few months ago, and its top-of-the-line HERO4 Black shoots gorgeous 4K video and the half-step-down HERO4 Silver added a built-in touch display. 