---
layout: post
title:  "Tobii"
image: "/img/Tobii.jpg"
cover: "/img/Tobii_cover.jpg"
image-alt: "Tobii logo"
location: Sands - 71837
website: http://www.tobii.com
date:   2014-12-17
tags:
 - Sands
 - Computer Hardware and Software Accessories
 - Automotive Electronics
 - Computer Hardware and Software
 - Gaming
 - Sensors
 - Wearables
---

Tobii is the world leader in eye tracking, a technology that makes it possible for computers to know exactly where users are looking. Eye tracking will revolutionize the way that we interact with computers becoming the fundamental in the next generation natural user interface.

##What to See and Why
Tobii has declared 2015 the "Year of Consumer Eye Tracking" at CES. This is the year, Tobii says, that consumers will take eye-tracking technology out of the lab and into our daily lives. Tobii's got a suite of new products ready to back up that claim. Here's what you should check out.

The SteelSeries Sentry, a 2015 CES Innovations Honoree, is the world's first gaming eye tracker for streamers, e-sports competitors, and anyone who just wants to enhance their game strategy. Eye-tracking is set to revolutionizing gaming, so make sure you check out the Sentry. 

The Tobii Glasses 2 are a big step forward over their predecessors, and now feature the world's smallest eye-tracking tech for gaming augmentation, training, and professional applications. 

Feeling hungry? Check out the Pizza Hut Subconscious Menu to find out what you "really crave" on your pizza. An interactive menu will display pizza toppings; by the time you think you know what you want, your eyes have already decided for you -- and Tobii knows the answers. The future of dining awaits. 