---
layout: post
title:  "Withings"
image: "/img/Withings.jpg"
cover: "/img/Withings_cover.jpg"
image-alt: "Withings logo"
location: Sands - 74301
website: http://www.withings.com
date:   2014-12-17
tags:
 - Sands
 - Fitness and Sports Accessories
 - Smart Home Accessories
 - Fitness and Sports
 - Health and Biotech
 - Sensors
 - Smart Home/Appliances
 - Wearables
 - Wireless Devices
---

Withings is the leader of the connected-health revolution. Since 2008, we have created smart products and apps that enable users to make healthy and balanced choices. Our products are part of a broad ecosystem that covers key aspects of the health spectrum, insuring a 360° health experience.

##What to See and Why
Withings has received three CES 2015 innovation awards for its new devices, the Withings Activité and Withings Home, so those are things you're definitely going to want to check out. 

The Activité is the only Swiss-made activity tracker, which means it combines precise time with activity tracking. Featuring scratch-proof domed sapphire glass and a fine calf leather strap, it's a fitness tracker that will look beautiful on your wrist. But it's far more than just fashion. The Activité tracks all of your movements, and displays your stats in a companion app. It's water resistant to 50 meters, and can identify and log your swimming workout -- that means you'll never have to count laps again. It also watches over your sleep patterns to provide comprehensive monitoring so you can optimize your sleep. It's also immensely convenient -- it's powered by a button cell battery that lasts 8 months, so you'll never need to worry about charging it. And since it's connected to your smartphone, it'll automatically adjust itself to the time zone you're in.

The Withings Home is the first HD camera with air quality sensors, which makes it the most comprehensive house monitoring solution. With best-in-class video technologies, Home offers an HD video feed of exceptional quality, keeping lag to a minimum. Its 135° Wide Angle lens offers one of the widest fields of view on the market, so you can "say goodbye to eerie motorized cameras and distorting fisheye lenses." It also has Night Vision features, and is able to see through the darkness with an infrared mechanical filter. But its most unique feature are those air quality sensors, which helps track indoor air pollution and protect your whole family's environmental well-being. 