---
layout: post
title:  "Polar"
image: "/img/polar.jpg"
cover: "/img/Polar_cover.jpg"
image-alt: "Polar logo"
location: Sands - 73921
website: http://www.PolarUSA.com
date:   2014-12-17
tags:
 - Sands
 - Fitness and Sports Accessories
 - Wireless Accessories
 - Biometrics
 - Fitness and Sports
 - Health and Biotech
 - Internet Services
 - Other Consumer Technology
 - Sensors
 - Wireless Devices
 - Wireless Services
---

Founded in 1977, Polar invented the first wireless heart rate monitor. Since then, Polar has been leading the sports instrument and heart rate monitoring category through its in-depth understanding of human physiology, performance and the environment. Polar products are consumers' first choice.

##What to See and Why
Polar wants to help you make real progress when you train. That's why it developed Smart Coaching -- to give you the best guidance possible. From day-to-day fitness levels, the creation of individual training plans, and giving instant feedback, Smart Coaching can help by offering features that are personalized to your needs and designed for maximum enjoyment and motivation. 

That training program works hand in hand with Polar's awesome line of products, like its M400. With a built-in GPS an advanced training features, the M400 wearable helps keep an eye on your activity 24/7. The M400 is also there for you every step of the way, cheering you on when you set new records or personal bests. It's light, comfortable, and water-resistant, making it easy to wear all day long. 

If you're looking for even more, check out Polar's V800, which offers heart rate data while swimming, as well as altitude readings with a built-in barometric pressure sensor, making it the smartest and most advanced multisport training computer.